# Athena Library (Version 1.4)

##  Konstantine Arkoudas and David Musser

## Overview 

These Athena files constitute the Athena library, version 1.4. They are
included in the Athena 1.4.1 (FPMICS) distribution files available on
the [GitHub Athena Foundation
site](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena).

## lib/main files and listings 

Compute x +\* n using lg n +
operations   [`fast-power.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/fast-power.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/fast-power.ath.pdf))\
Fast Power unit
test   [`fast-power_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/fast-power_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/fast-power_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Semigroup, Identity, Monoid, Group algebraic
theories   [`group.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/group.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/group.ath.pdf))\
Group unit
test   [`group_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/group_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/group_unittest.ath.pdf))\
ZID, the integers as an integral
domain   [`integer-integral-domain.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/integer-integral-domain.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/integer-integral-domain.ath.pdf))\
Integer
addition   [`integer-plus.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/integer-plus.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/integer-plus.ath.pdf))\
Integer
multiplication   [`integer-times.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/integer-times.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/integer-times.ath.pdf))\
Integral-Domain, an algebraic
theory   [`integral-domain.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/integral-domain.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/integral-domain.ath.pdf))\
Integral Domain unit
test   [`integral-domain_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/integral-domain_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/integral-domain_unittest.ath.pdf))\
List
datatype   [`list-of.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/list-of.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/list-of.ath.pdf))\
Natural number
division   [`nat-div.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-div.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-div.ath.pdf))\
Natural number specialization of
fast-power   [`nat-fast-power.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-fast-power.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-fast-power.ath.pdf))\
A
variation   [`nat-fast-power1.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-fast-power1.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-fast-power1.ath.pdf))\
Natural number gcd function (Euclid's
algorithm)   [`nat-gcd.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-gcd.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-gcd.ath.pdf))\
Natural number floor of n/2 function; even, odd,
parity   [`nat-half.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-half.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-half.ath.pdf))\
Natural number
orderings   [`nat-less.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-less.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-less.ath.pdf))\
Natural number max
function   [`nat-max.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-max.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-max.ath.pdf))\
Natural number
subtraction   [`nat-minus.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-minus.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-minus.ath.pdf))\
Natural number
addition   [`nat-plus.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-plus.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-plus.ath.pdf))\
Natural number specialization of
power   [`nat-power.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-power.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-power.ath.pdf))\
Natural number
multiplication   [`nat-times.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/nat-times.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/nat-times.ath.pdf))\
Binary-Relation, Irreflexive, Transitive, etc. relational
theories   [`order.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/order.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/order.ath.pdf))\
Order unit
test   [`order_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/order_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/order_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Natural number specialization of
ordered-lists   [`ordered-list-nat.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/ordered-list-nat.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/ordered-list-nat.ath.pdf))\
Orderings of lists
theory   [`ordered-list.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/ordered-list.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/ordered-list.ath.pdf))\
Ordered List unit
test   [`ordered-list_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/ordered-list_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/ordered-list_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Compute x +\* n using n-1 +
operations   [`power.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/power.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/power.ath.pdf))\
Power unit
test   [`power_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/power_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/power_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Ring, an algebraic
theory   [`ring.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/ring.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/ring.ath.pdf))\
Ring unit
test   [`ring_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/ring_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/ring_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Transitive closure, a relational
theory   [`transitive-closure.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/transitive-closure.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/transitive-closure.ath.pdf))\
Transitive Closure unit
test   [`transitive-closure_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/main/transitive-closure_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/main/transitive-closure_unittest.ath.pdf))

## lib/algebra files and listings 

Function
theory   [`function.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/function.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/function.ath.pdf))\
Function unit
test   [`function_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/function_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/function_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Permutation
theory   [`permutation.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/permutation.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/permutation.ath.pdf))\
Permutation unit
test   [`permutation_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/permutation_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/permutation_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Integers as an integral
doman   [`Z-as-integral-domain.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/Z-as-integral-domain.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/Z-as-integral-domain.ath.pdf))\
Integer power series as a
group   [`Z-poly-as-group.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/Z-poly-as-group.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/Z-poly-as-group.ath.pdf))\
Integer power
series   [`Z-poly.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/algebra/Z-poly.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/algebra/Z-poly.ath.pdf))

## lib/search files and listings 

Binary search on BST with nat
keys   [`binary-search-nat.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search-nat.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search-nat.ath.pdf))\
Binary search tree with nat
keys   [`binary-search-tree-nat.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search-tree-nat.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search-tree-nat.ath.pdf))\
Binary search tree (BST) over Strict Weak Order
(SWO)   [`binary-search-tree.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search-tree.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search-tree.ath.pdf))\
Binary Search Tree unit
test   [`binary-search-tree_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search-tree_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search-tree_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Binary search on BST over
SWO   [`binary-search.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search.ath.pdf))\
Binary search on BST with nat keys (alternate
version)   [`binary-search1-nat.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search1-nat.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search1-nat.ath.pdf))\
Binary Search unit
test   [`binary-search_unittest.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-search_unittest.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-search_unittest.ath.pdf))\
Binary tree over
T   [`binary-tree.ath`](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/lib/search/binary-tree.ath)  ([listing](https://github.com/AthenaFoundation/athena/blob/master/listings/lib/search/binary-tree.ath.pdf))
